# Titanic SurvivalThis project is part of a series of 100 machine learning projects aimed at building and deploying machine learning models. The goal of this project is to predict the survival probability of the Titanic passengers based on there attributes.In fact, it looks like some sorts of people were most likely to survive than othersThe swagger : https://titanic-survival-service-697664343307.europe-west4.run.app/docs# True GoalThe goal is not the model again, but the structure, coding clarity and robustness, documentation. Also a fast deployment to cloud run## Table of Contents1. [Introduction](#introduction)2. [Dataset](#dataset)3. [Installation](#installation)4. [Model Prototyping](#Model-Prototyping)5. [Usage](#usage)6. [Model Performance](#model-performance)7. [Results](#results)8. [Conclusions](#conclusions)9. [Deploy Model](#deploy-model)10. [Project Structure](#project-structure)## IntroductionClassic machine learning case from a kaggle challenge to predict wether a passenger of the titanic will survice the shipwreck.## DatasetTrain.csv contains a subset of passengers on board and reveal if they survived or not(891 rows)Test.csv is the same to test our model (418 rows)You can find detailed informations on the data sit on the kaggle challenge sitehttps://www.kaggle.com/competitions/titanic/data## InstallationTo run this project, you'll need to install the required dependencies. You can install them using the following command:'''bash'''pip install -r requirements.txt- **Installation**: Instructions on how to set up the environment, including installing dependencies. #### **Model Prototyping**## Model prototypingWe used an xgboost with an hyperparametrization we hyperopt.It sucks that I lost that commit but managed to save the best parameters...The case was really interesting with the iterative curves but the mac os upgrade got the best of us#### **Model Performance**Accuracy of 84%## Model PerformanceThe model was evaluated using cross-validation and achieved the following metrics:- **Accuracy**: - **Precision**: - **Recall**: - **F1-Score**: The metrics were lost## ResultsThe model successfully classifiesthe survival proba with high accuracy. ## ConclusionsThe classification model performs well on the Titanic dataset, demonstrating the effectiveness of basic machine learning techniques on a well-structured dataset. This project serves as a solid foundation for more complex classification problems.## Deploy Model### FastAPIin application/app.py we've built a fast api service to predict classes and render probabilitiesTo run in the "root" folder '''bashuvicorn application.app:fastapp --reload### DockerWe've then created a docker image (see Dockerfile) at the root of this projectto build and run the docker image : run at the root of the project'''bashmake buildmake runcheck errors : docker ps -adocker logs <logs>### Google Cloud Runhttps://cloud.google.com/run/docs/configuring/services/containers?hl=fr#gcloud_1https://medium.com/@saverio3107/deploy-fastapi-with-docker-cloud-run-a-step-by-step-guide-a01c42df0feeThe deployment failed after a lot of attempts due to app failing to listen to port 8000 or 8080'''bashmake build_gcrmake push_gcr### Deploy it '''bashmake deploy_gcr## Project StructureThe project is organized into the following structure:### Explanation:- **`data/`**: Directory to store dataset files.- **`notebooks/`**: Contains Jupyter notebooks for Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) and other prototyping tasks. Includes a notebook 'Fundamentals.ipynb' where theoretical answers are documented.- **`scripts/`**: Python scripts used for data processing, model training, and evaluation.- **`models/`**: Directory where serialized models (like '.pkl' or '.h5' files) are stored after training.- **`app/`**: Directory for application code, such as a Flask or FastAPI app, used to deploy the model.- **`README.md`**: The main project documentation, providing an overview and instructions.- **`requirements.txt`**: Lists all the dependencies required to run the project.- ** `Dockerfile` ** : The dockerfile to create the image of our application to deploy on GCP